2nd version of the init-alt simulation, to mathematically model differential
development inducing something like group selection.

This 2nd version is simpler than the 1st version. The notions of 'predation'
and 'protection' have been replaced by a simple 'gain' of sunlight induced
by each giver.


The world consists of a torus of cells, i.e. a 20x20 square with wrap-around
(or some other size).

Organisms can develop into two phenotypes: "taker" and "giver". A taker
absorbs sunlight from the cell it occupies and nearby cells and converts
it into offspring. The number of offspring is proportional to the amount
of sunlight absorbed (via a Poisson distribution). When multiple takers try to
absorb sunlight from the same cell, they split the total available
proportionally. A giver does not reproduce; instead, it increases the amount
of sunlight that organisms in the neighboring cells can absorb.

Each organism fully occupies one cell, and carries a gene consisting of a
number, g, in the range 0.0 to 1.0, equal to its probability of becoming a
"giver". When an organism reproduces, its offspring receiver its g + a
delta, in a small normal distribution. Thus g is under selective pressure:
it should eventually settle on an optimal value for maximizing the population,
which equates to maximizing the amount of sunlight absorbed.

Each organism has a lifespan of 1 timestep, i.e. 1 generation. Each timestep:
   1. Each organism becomes either a giver or a taker.
   2. The givers add their "gain" to their own cell and nearby cells,
      determining the total sunlight available at each cell.
   3. The takers absorb sunlight. Each adds an "attempted absorption" to
      nearby cells. If the total attempted absorption at a given cell is <=
      the sunlight 
   4. The takers reproduce and their offspring are deposited into nearby
      cells.
   5. All the organisms from the current timestep are removed.


Should the each giver subtract one point of sunlight from its own cell,
so it can't be absorbed by neighbors? This might simplify analysis of
total sunlight absorbed. Or maybe not. We're really not interested in
total sunlight absorbed; we're interested in total sunlight converted
into organisms.
